Good morning.
How's everybody doing?
Come on, a little more energy.
All right.
So today we're gonna be talking about
audio session management for iOS.
And what this is really all about is
making sure that your applications use
audio in a predictable way that users--
The way they expect audio to work,
and to provide the best user experience.
So we're going to be talking about
the managed audio experience on iOS
and explaining what that's all about.
And then the bulk of the talk is
going to be about using audio session.
We're going to be talking about some new
things like modes that are new in iOS 5.
We're going to be talking about
background audio and what it
means for your application
to be mixable or non-mixable.
We're also going to be talking
about some new routing properties
that are available in iOS 5,
and one new behavior
that's related to routing.
And then we're going to be talking
about the voice processing audio unit in
conjunction with one of the new modes,
and how we think that using the
voice processing audio unit can make
your application that much better.
And then finally,
I'm going to spend a few
minutes talking about codecs.
Codecs are not directly
related to audio session,
but they're a really important
kind of bread and butter
technology in digital audio.
So before I get into the in-depth
discussion of audio session,
it can be a little bit daunting.
And so we wanted to talk about if
you're just wanting to do some basic
playback or some basic recording,
what are the kind of bare
minimum steps you need to know
about when using audio session?
So we're going to look at a little
bit of code and try and help you
feel like it's not that daunting.
So for a basic application
that wants to do playback,
there's three steps:
preparing your session,
handling the beginning of interruptions,
and handling the end of interruptions.
So preparing your session,
we can see that it's
really not a lot of code.
In the first line,
we're using an AV audio session class
method called shared instance to
get a pointer to our application's
global instance of AV audio session.
Then we're choosing a category.
For many applications that
want to do basic playback,
Ambient is going to be a good
choice for things like mini
games and productivity apps.
And then once we've done that setup,
we're going to make our session active.
I should note that if you're using
something like the AV Audio Player or
AV Audio Recorder classes,
setting your session active may
not be absolutely necessary.
But it's a good idea to
go ahead and do it here,
because some of the other
APIs like OpenEL will require
you to set your session active.
And then you're going to
get ready to play audio,
and depending on which API you're using,
the steps are going to be
a little bit different.
So then once you're up and
using audio in your application,
your session is active,
you want to be prepared
to handle interruptions.
The system is going to notify
you when your audio has stopped.
So we're looking here at the code.
This is a delegate method that's part of
the AV audio session delegate protocol.
And so when the system notifies you
that an interruption has occurred,
it's telling you that
playback has stopped and that
your session is inactive.
So if you had a user interface element,
something like a play button,
this would be a good time to change that
to reflect that audio has been stopped.
So we're looking here at the code.
This is a delegate method that's part of
the AV audio session delegate protocol.
And so when the system notifies you
that an interruption has occurred,
it's telling you that
playback has stopped and that
your session is inactive.
If you're using an API like
OpenAL or using AudioQueues,
AVAudioSession provides a global
notification for events like the
beginning and ending of interruptions.
If you're using AVAudioPlayer
or AVAudioRecorder,
there are delegate methods,
and these are per instance.
So if you had, say,
three or four AVAudioPlayer instances,
each one can receive a begin
and end interruption event.
When the interruption ends,
the system will notify you.
So looking at the code,
this is an AV audio session
delegate protocol method,
end interruption with flags.
And here, this is a good chance to
resume recording or playback,
to update your user interface.
Again, so if you had something
like a play button,
you would update your interface to
show that audio is playing again.
And this is where you could
reactivate your session.
Thank you.
And again, AV Audio Session Delegate
provides a global notification
for APIs like OpenAL or AudioQs.
And then AV Audio Player and
AV Audio Recorder,
each instance will get a notification.
So those are the basic steps
if you want to do simple
playback or simple recording.
So it's not a lot of code.
It's not too scary.
But it's kind of hiding some --
quite a bit of that complexity that's
actually going on in the system.
And on iOS,
we have a managed audio experience.
So let's talk about what that means.
So the managed audio experience on iOS
is kind of comprised of a few parts.
The main thing is that we know that
users carry their iOS devices everywhere.
If you think about where you see
people with their iPod touches,
their iPads and their iPhones,
you have them with you
in business meetings,
when you're at home eating dinner,
the phone's in your pocket.
If you're at your place of worship
or on your morning commute,
these devices are really
with us everywhere.
And we know that audio
can be a disruptive thing.
So users expect that things like the
ringer switch and the screen lock and the
volume keys behave in a predictable way.
So the system is helping
you to manage that.
And the goal is to have a
consistent user experience,
and the best user experience possible.
Another aspect of this is that the mobile
device market is really fast moving.
If you think about just in
the last year at WWDC 2010,
we were talking about iOS 4 and iPhone 4.
On the software side, we've seen 4.1, .2,
.3 updates,
and we're talking about iOS 5 this week.
On the hardware front,
we saw the Verizon iPhone 4 come along,
a new iPod touch, and of course, iPad 2.
So with these fast moving changes on
the hardware and the software side,
part of the managed audio experience is
making sure that applications continue to
behave the way that users expect them to.
So our message for developers is that
we want you to choose the right APIs and
use those APIs to communicate to the
system how you want to use audio.
So let's get into audio
session management,
the bulk of today's talk.
Audio session is the primary way that you
communicate with the operating system to
communicate how you want to use audio.
So we're going to be talking about
how to make your app sounds behave
according to users' expectations,
be consistent with built in applications,
things like the iPod app, voice memos,
YouTube.
We're going to be talking
about how to pick the best
category for your application.
We're going to be talking about
mixing with background audio
and what that's all about.
And as we saw earlier,
we're going to talk about responding
to interruptions and I'm going
to talk about that in more depth.
And we're going to talk about
handling routing changes.
So audio session is actually two APIs.
If we look at the bottom layer in green,
that's the audio session services part,
and that's a C callable API.
And this is where all of the
implementation for audio session lives.
On top of that, in AV Foundation,
we have AV Audio Session.
This is an Objective-C class
that provides a lot of
the common functionality.
Because AV Audio Session is built
on top of Audio Session Services,
there's no loss in functionality.
It's using Audio Session
Services directly.
So we encourage you to
start with AV Audio Session,
and then if you need a little
more control over your session,
you can use the API that lives
in Audio Session Services.
And it's perfectly okay to mix and match.
They're designed to work together.
So even if you need to use
some of the lower level details
in Audio Session Services,
go ahead and use AV Audio Session
for the things that you can.
So there are five tasks that
you need to be aware of when
you're using Audio Session.
The first is to set up
the session and delegates.
Next, you're going to choose
and set a category.
In iOS 5,
there's a new optional step that
goes along with setting the category,
and that is choosing and setting a mode.
And we're going to be talking about
each of these steps in more detail.
Once you've got your session configured,
you want to make your session active.
And then once you're up
and running using audio,
you want to be able to handle
interruptions and handle
route changes appropriately.
So the first step,
setting up the session.
This is going to look really similar
to what we saw a few minutes ago.
The first step is the same.
We're using the shared instance
class method to get a pointer
to the global single instance of
AV audio session in our application.
If you're familiar with design patterns,
you can think of this as a singleton.
The next step is setting a
delegate for notifications.
So AVAudioSessionDelegate is a
protocol that provides several methods.
The next step, step two,
is to choose and set a category.
This is a really important step,
so we're going to explain what each of
these categories are used for and help
you to decide which category is going
to be the best for your application.
In many cases, for many applications,
you're going to pick a single category,
set it once, and forget about it.
For some of you,
you may need to switch back and forth
between two or possibly three categories.
So the six categories that
we provide are playback,
record, play and record,
audio processing,
and then ambient and solo ambient.
The first three we can kind
of group together and think of
these for audio applications.
That is,
applications where audio is really the
forefront and a very important part
of what the application is all about.
Things like audio players
and video players,
voice over IP, voice chat,
audio recorders.
What these categories have in common is
that they do not obey the screen lock,
nor do they obey the ringer switch.
Now,
that may seem a little counterintuitive,
so let's talk about that.
So if you think about something
like the built-in iPod application,
it's going to use the playback category.
And you really want users to be able
to start their music and then hit
the lock screen to save battery life,
but continue to listen to their music.
And likewise, with the ringer switch,
you can use the playback
category to play music.
And you really want users to be able
to start their music and then hit
the lock screen to save battery life,
but continue to listen to their music.
So if you think about this,
you want the user to be able to have
that set to the silent position,
since they're not hearing ringtones.
But since the user is in control,
it's the user who's
pressing the play button,
we want them to be able to hear
their music even though the ringer
switch is set to the silent position.
These three categories also share
the property that they're allowed
to be used in the background.
So if you think about something, again,
like the iPod app,
you want users to be able to
start playing their music,
send iPod to the background,
and then bring up something like
Safari so they can surf the web while
they're listening to their music.
So the playback category
is used for output only.
The record category is
used for input only.
And it's important to note that
when you use the record category
and your session is active,
all output audio in the
system is going to be muted.
The play and record category
combines the first two,
so it allows you to do
playback or recording or
simultaneous play and record.
In the middle of the chart,
we see this Mix with Others column,
and I'm going to be explaining
that more in detail,
but let's just notice that the playback
and play and record categories,
by default, they're not going to
mix with other audio,
but there's an override you can set
to make them mix with other audio.
The second grouping of categories
is for applications that are
games and general applications.
So these are the types of applications
where audio enhances the experience,
but it's not critical.
So if you think about something
like the yellow sticky notes
application that is on every phone,
hearing those key clicks
enhances the experience,
but if you have your ringer switch off
and you're not hearing those key clicks,
it's not a big deal.
You can still use the application.
So these are the types of applications
where users are very hands on with them,
or something like a video game where
again the audio enhances the experience,
but you can still play the
game even without sound.
So these categories do
obey the screen lock,
and they do obey the ringer switch,
and they are not allowed to
use audio in the background.
And the reason that these categories
are not allowed to use audio in the
background is because of the fact that
we expect users to be hands-on with them.
So if you send this
application to the background,
the user is no longer
interacting with it,
so it makes sense that
the audio will stop.
The difference between ambient and solo
ambient is that the ambient category
will always mix with other audio.
So this is for things like a
video game where you just have
kind of incidental sound effects,
but you don't have your own music
soundtrack playing in the background.
The final category is
for offline processing.
The name of this category
is audio processing,
and it's for doing offline
conversions or offline processing.
And looking at the chart,
we can see that it does
neither input nor output.
And this one also does not obey the
screen lock or the ringer switch,
and it is allowed in the background.
So for example, you want to be able to
continue processing audio
even if the screen is locked.
So those are the six categories.
I just want to reiterate that you
really want to spend some time
thinking about what is the best
category for your application,
because that's a big part
of making sure that the user
experience is the best possible.
So looking at the code,
following along here,
we saw that we got the pointer
to our AV audio session.
We set up our delegate,
and now we are setting the category.
In this example,
I'm showing the play and record category.
So now in iOS 5,
we're introducing some new
functionality that we call modes.
Modes go along with categories,
and they're a way to specialize your
category and tell the OS a little bit
more about how you want to use audio.
And this is going to unlock some
capabilities to behave more like built-in
applications and to do some things
that you just couldn't do in iOS 4.
So we have four modes-- voice chat,
video recording, measurement,
and then the default mode.
And let's look at each one of these.
Voice chat mode,
this is for things like voice
over IP or video games where you
want players to be able to talk
to each other over the network.
Because it's a two-way communication,
we're going to, this works with the play
and record category.
So when you set this mode,
and you've set the play
and record category,
the system is going to pick the best
microphone choice for the current route.
So let's look at the way that
people hold phones when they're on,
say, voice over IP calls.
The first orientation is to
hold the phone up to your ear.
So at the top of the phone,
we have a speaker that we
refer to as the receiver.
And then at the bottom of the device,
we have a microphone.
So this is the input and output routes
that we'll use in this orientation.
The second common
orientation is speakerphone.
So here we see a man who's
chatting with someone.
He could be in a FaceTime call or
it could be a voice over IP call,
but this is the speakerphone orientation.
So here we're going to be playing
audio out of the bottom speaker and
using the top microphone for input.
We want to use the output and
input devices that are the farthest
apart from each other to eliminate
feedback and those sorts of things.
When you set the voice chat mode,
the system will also optimize the signal
processing for voice applications.
The system will also help to manage
routing by restricting the allowed
routes to those that make sense for
voice chat types of applications.
And it will automatically, by default,
the system will allow Bluetooth headsets
to be used in your audio routes.
So if you think about voice over
IP applications or video games where
players are chatting with each other,
you want them to be able to
use those Bluetooth headsets.
If you decide that you don't want that,
you can set an override to turn that off.
So the final thing I want to
mention about this mode is that
we want to encourage you to use
the voice processing audio unit.
In a few minutes,
I'm going to go and talk about
the voice processing audio unit.
The next mode is video recording mode.
The use case for this is
actually pretty easy to explain.
A lot of our new iOS devices
have great HD video cameras,
and so this is for applications where you
want to have the best audio experience
to go along with using that video camera.
So there are two categories
that support this mode,
play and record,
and then the record only category.
And like with the voice chat mode,
the system is going to pick the best
microphone choice for the current usage.
So let's look at a typical way that
someone might be holding the phone
when they're doing a video recording.
We see, if we're looking at the
diagram of the iPhone 4,
that the top microphone and
the camera lens are located
pretty close to each other.
So it makes sense that we'd
want to use the top microphone
because it's close to that lens.
And if you look at the way
she's holding the phone,
oftentimes users will end up covering up
the bottom microphone with their hand.
And so that's another reason
that we choose the top microphone
for this type of application.
And likewise,
the system is going to choose the best
output route for the current usage.
The third mode is Measurement Mode.
This is for applications that want
to do calibration or measurements,
things like SPL meters
or audio analysis tools.
And then on the output side,
maybe applications that aren't
so concerned about having
the nicest quality sound,
but the simplest audio with the least
amount of signal processing applied.
This mode, when you're in this mode,
the system is going to use
the primary microphone.
On iPhone 4, that's the bottom mic.
And in terms of the signal path,
the system is going to apply some minimal
EQ to create a flat EQ for microphones.
And otherwise, it's going to provide very
minimal signal processing.
And that's what this
mode is really all about.
The final mode is default mode.
And this is the mode you get if
you do not explicitly set one.
This works with all categories.
If you want to set it explicitly,
there are constants in
the API for doing so.
On the input side,
the system is going to select
the primary microphone,
and the device is going to be
configured for general usage.
So it's just like what you would have
gotten in earlier versions of iOS.
Okay, so looking at the code, we've,
in the previous step,
we set plan record category,
and now we're choosing voice chat mode.
So since we're setting the voice chat
mode in the play and record category,
this is a good opportunity to talk
about the voice processing audio unit.
So what is the voice
processing audio unit,
and why should I use it?
The Voice Processing Audio Unit,
as the name implies, it's an audio unit,
so it's one of the lower audio
APIs in the software stack.
It is an AU remote I/O with a
built-in acoustic echo canceler,
and that's the important part that
we're going to be talking about today.
It's designed for high-quality chat
with two configurations available:
highest quality and lowest complexity.
The word "complexity" here really
is talking about CPU usage.
So if you know that your application
is really doing a lot of processing,
and you need every last CPU cycle,
then you may want to choose the
lowest complexity configuration.
Otherwise,
why not choose the highest quality?
So this is available on iOS.
It's been on iOS since version 3.
But it's new and available on OS X Lion.
So let's look at what happens
in a voice chat scenario where
you do not have an acoustic echo
canceler in the signal path.
So let me explain the
diagram a little bit.
On the left side in blue
is a user at the far end.
So maybe they're in the next room,
or maybe they're on the
other side of the world.
That wavy line in the middle
represents the network.
And then on the right side
in red is the near end user.
And you can think of the near end user
as being the person using their device
with your software running on it.
So let's look at what happens here.
So the far end talker,
the person in blue,
speaks into his microphone.
That signal goes into his iOS
device and goes across the network.
And then that signal is played out of
the loudspeaker on the near end device.
The near end user is going to
be talking at the same time.
And so the sound that's coming
out of the speaker and then
the near end user's voice,
they're going to be mixed
together in the air.
And so the signal that's being
fed into the microphone is a
combination of those two signals.
And that's what the purple
line at the bottom represents.
So now this signal is going
to be sent across the network,
and it's going to arrive
at the far end device.
So the far end talker,
he's going to hear,
his own voice being echoed back to him,
perhaps 100 to 200 milliseconds later.
And that's going to be
a really annoying echo.
It's just going to really
detract from the user experience.
In reality, the situation is even a
little bit more complex.
There are other applications
on the near-end device that can
also be producing audio output.
So perhaps the near-end user is
playing his iPod in the background,
and things like SMS notifications
or a voicemail notification,
all of those things can be making
sounds that are also gonna be
coming out of the loudspeaker.
So coming out of the loudspeaker
on the near-end device,
that light blue line is a combination
of the voice signal coming over
the network as well as any other
output audio on the near device.
So now those sounds are going to
be mixed in the air with the voice
signal from the near end speaker,
and that combined signal is
going into the microphone.
Again, it's being sent over the network.
So now the far end user,
not only is he hearing
an echo of his own voice,
which was irritating,
but he's also hearing the music that
was playing on the near end device.
And he's hearing those SMS notifications.
So again,
that's just a bad user experience.
[Transcript missing]
So I'm just going to direct
your attention to the
AudioUnitProperties.h header file.
There are five properties here that you
can use to fine-tune and configure the
use of the voice processing audio unit.
Okay, so we've talked about
choosing a category,
choosing a mode if it can
enhance your application.
So now it's time to make
your session active.
And so that's the code that
we're seeing here highlighted.
Once you've activated your session,
there may be some additional setup,
things like setting up your AV audio
players or OpenAL or audio cues.
Okay, so now that we're at the point
where our application is active,
it's up and using audio,
it's a good time to talk about background
audio and what that's all about.
So with the introduction
of iOS 4 last year,
third-party applications were now
given the ability to do multitasking.
This was a great thing,
and it introduced a way for
third-party applications to
play audio in the background.
So it gets interesting when you start
thinking about multiple applications that
want to do playback at the same time.
So before we get into that,
let's talk about how you
enable background audio.
So the first thing is to pick a
category that supports background audio.
So that's going to be all of them,
except for ambient and solo ambient.
Once you've selected a category
that supports background audio,
you're going to go to your Info.plist,
and for required background modes,
you're going to add the audio flag.
So those are the two steps to get
started with background audio.
So now let's talk about what happens
if there's more than one application
that wants to play at the same time.
So the question is,
what is going to be heard?
And the answer is that it
depends on both applications,
whether each application
is mixable or non-mixable.
So looking at the chart here,
we see that the ambient category
will always mix with others.
The playback and play
and record categories,
by default, will not mix with others.
But there's an overriding that you can
set to allow them to mix with others.
So that's what we refer to when
we're talking about mixable.
Either your category automatically
supports mixing with others,
or you've set that override
to make it mixable.
A couple of notes about if your
application is non-mixable,
which is, again,
going to be the default if you're using
the playback category or play and record.
If you're non-mixable,
your application is going to have
access to hardware resources,
things like setting the sample
rate or setting audio buffer sizes.
Kind of going along with that, the modes,
when you apply a mode,
that's kind of closely
related to hardware resources,
because it's affecting
things like routing,
like microphone selection.
So you need to be a non-mixable
app to apply a mode.
And then finally,
if your application is non-mixable,
when you go active,
you may interrupt other audio.
So let's look at that in more detail.
So in the first scenario,
our application is in the foreground,
and it's the only application
that wants to use audio.
We've set that override
to make it mixable,
and so we're happily streaming audio.
It's being fed into the system's mixer
and then sent out to playback hardware.
So now let's talk about if there
was another application that was
already running in the background
using audio when your application
launches and goes active.
So in the first case,
the background app was also mixable,
so there's no conflict.
Both applications can continue to play.
Both streams of audio will be
fed into the mixer and then
sent to the playback hardware.
If the background
application was non-mixable,
recall that that application has
access to hardware resources,
things like setting the sample rate.
And there's no conflict
in this case either.
Both applications can happily
play audio at the same time.
Okay, so now let's kind of take a
step back and look at if our
application was non-mixable.
So we've set the playback category
and we did not set the override.
So now this forefront application
is going to have access to
those hardware resources,
the buffer size and the sample rate.
So the question is,
what's going to happen with the
audio in the background app when
our application goes active?
Well, if the background
application was mixable,
there's no conflict,
and both streams will continue to play.
The more interesting case is
if the background application
was also non-mixable.
So the red X is telling us that
their audio has been interrupted now,
so that background application
is going to stop playing.
Don't be afraid of the red X.
It doesn't mean that
anything has gone wrong.
In many cases,
this is absolutely the right behavior.
It's what you want.
So if your, let's say your application
streams radio from the Internet,
then you want it to interrupt
iPod when the user brings your
application to the foreground.
So this may be the
absolute right behavior.
Thank you.
Okay, so let's talk about,
for more specific types of applications,
some kind of details about going active
and when you might want to go inactive.
So for most applications,
you can just go active at the beginning,
set it, and forget it.
But there are a few classes of
applications where you want to kind of
manage your active state a little more.
So recorders, voice over IP applications,
turn-by-turn navigation apps,
and then non-mixable apps.
For recorders,
as I mentioned earlier when we
were talking about categories,
if you've set the record-only category,
all the output audio on the
system is going to be muted.
So you only want to be active when
you're actually recording audio.
As we just looked at with
non-mixable applications,
your application can interrupt
other audio in the system.
So you may want to think about managing
your active state to only use-- only be
active when you're actually using audio.
We're going to look more closely at voice
over IP and turn by turn navigation apps.
So let's start with Voice over
IP or voice chat applications.
So if we're a Voice over IP application
and a phone call comes in,
that's when we want to go active.
And that's going to interrupt other
audio that was playing on the system.
When the call ends,
we want to go inactive to
allow other audio to resume.
So looking at the code here,
we have a callback method.
My call did finish.
So this is when the user is hung up.
So we're going to be calling
setActiveWithFlagsError,
and we're going to be
passing a no to deactivate.
And we're going to be using the
notifyOthersOnDeactivation flag
to let the system know that it can
tell the other audio that had been
playing that it can now resume.
Turn-by-turn GPS applications
are a really interesting case.
So let's look at the setup first
when you're setting up your session.
We're going to choose
the playback category,
because we want to be able to play
audio if the screen has been locked
or if the ringer switch is off.
We're going to set the
mix with others flag,
and this is that override that
I was talking about that can
make your application mixable.
Because if you're a
turn-by-turn GPS application,
you're giving directions like
turn right in 500 meters,
but you don't really need to
interrupt other audio on the system.
You want it to mix in.
There's another override called
other mixable audio should duck.
And what this means is that when
you're giving those directions,
like turn right in 500 meters,
that the other audio on the system is
going to be lowered in volume so that
those directions stick out in the mix.
So let's look at that.
So if you're this type of application,
you want to be registered
to receive location updates,
and you want to be registered
to use background audio.
So the user is in their car,
they're driving,
and they've arrived at a new
location where you want to give
them some directions to turn right.
So we see our method getting called here,
play the preloaded instructions.
So now we're going to
set our session active,
and this is going to be the trigger
to the system that it should
lower the volume of other audio.
And then we're going to use
our AVAudioPlayer object
here and tell it to play.
When the AV audio player is
done playing the instruction,
the audio player did finish playing
method is going to be called.
And this is where you're going
to set your session inactive,
and that's going to be the trigger
to the system that it can go
ahead and raise the volume of the
other audio that had been playing.
Okay,
so we've talked about when you're active,
if you're doing certain
types of applications,
how you may want to kind of manage
your active state a little bit more.
So now let's assume that
we're up and running,
we're using audio,
and we want to be prepared
to handle interruptions.
At the very beginning of the talk,
I just talked very briefly about this,
so let's look at this in more detail now.
So your session can be interrupted
by higher priority audio,
things like a phone call, a clock alarm,
or a non-mixable other application
coming into the foreground
and interrupting your session.
The interruption makes
your session inactive,
and any currently playing or recording
audio is going to be stopped.
When the interruption is over,
it's a good time to
reactivate certain state,
and that's going to depend on
exactly which API you're using
for playback or recording,
and then to become active again
if it's appropriate to do so.
So let's look at the methods
that are part of the AV audio
session delegate protocol that
are related to interruptions.
On a begin interruption,
this is the system notifying you
that audio has been stopped and
that your session is inactive.
I should clarify that it's not the
system asking if you want to be inactive.
It's telling you you're already inactive.
You need to just deal with it.
So this is a good opportunity
to change the state of your UI.
So again,
if you had something like a play button,
this is where you'd change it to
reflect that audio has stopped.
When the interruption ends,
so this would be like if the
user had taken a phone call and
they've now ended the phone call,
that would be an end interruption.
Or if an alarm went off and
the user pressed the OK button,
that would be the end.
Or if a phone call came in and
the user decided that they wanted
to just decline the phone call,
that would also end the interruption.
So the system is going to notify you
by one of these delegate methods.
So this is when you would
make your session active,
update your user interface,
and then resume playback or recording.
Just quickly looking at if we
were using an AV audio player,
the delegate protocol for AV audio
player has very similar methods for
audio player begin interruption and
audio player end interruption with flags.
As I noted earlier in the talk,
if you're using AV audio
players or AV audio recorders,
each instance is going to
receive these notifications.
So again, if you had like four or five
or six AV audio players,
each instance is going to
receive a notification.
Okay,
so then the final step in dealing with
audio session is to handle route changes.
And this is all about
the user's expectations.
On iOS, we have a rule that we
call the last in wins rule.
So this means that if the user
plugs in a headset or headphones,
the user expects that audio
is going to be automatically
routed to the headphones,
and they expect that that audio is going
to continue playing without pausing,
because they're, you know,
they're putting the
audio in a different way.
They're putting the
earbuds in their ears,
and they can continue playing.
It's not going to be
disturbing anyone else.
On the other hand,
when you're unplugging,
you're unplugging headphones or headset,
the user does expect that audio
is going to be routed back
to wherever it was before,
but they expect that
audio is going to pause,
because they're, now they're going to be
broadcasting audio into the room,
and that can be disruptive.
So there's a new behavior in iOS 5
that we just want to make you aware of.
The nice thing is that as a developer,
there's not really much you need to do,
but we did want to
make you aware of this.
So in this example,
we see that a person is using their iPod,
and they've started their, sorry,
they're using iPad,
and they've started their iPod music.
It's playing in the background,
and they're taking advantage of AirPlay,
and that audio is being
sent to their Apple TV,
which is connected to a television set,
and so their music is playing.
So they sent the iPod
application to the background,
and their music continues to stream,
and they brought up the yellow
sticky notes application,
and they're editing a recipe,
a cookie recipe, I think it is.
So the key click sounds now are
going to stay on the local device.
They're going to stay with the iPad.
Whereas the iPod audio is going
to be streamed to the television.
So this is going to apply
when you're using AirPlay,
or you are connected via an HDMI cable.
The other type of audio,
aside from system sounds,
that will stay on the
local device is voiceover.
That's an accessibility feature
for visually impaired users.
So what are the things that as
a developer you need to be aware
of with regards to audio routing?
So there's two things,
querying the route,
and then listening for route changes.
Querying the route is
asking the question,
what is the current audio route?
So in iOS 5, we have a new property.
In previous versions of iOS,
you could do this, and the property was a
little bit different.
So take a look at videos from
previous years to hear about that.
But in iOS 5, the new property,
audio route description,
is going to give you a CFDictionary.
And that CFDictionary is
going to have two keys,
one for audio inputs and
one for audio outputs.
In addition, in iOS 5,
we're now enumerating what all
of the possible inputs are.
So things like built-in
microphone or Bluetooth HFP.
I see some applause here.
And we're also enumerating
all of the possible outputs.
You have a few more on the output side,
things like Bluetooth A2DP, headphones,
AirPlay.
So with the new property,
you'll be using these constants
to tell which audio input
or output is being used.
So the second question is,
where did the route go?
So when a user plugs in an
accessory or unplugs an accessory,
what happened?
How did the route change?
So for this, you're going to use
AudioSessionAddPropertyListener,
and you're going to add a listener
for the AudioRouteChange property.
So this is going to tell you the
reason why the route changed,
what was the old route,
and in iOS 5 we're also telling
you what's the new route.
So in iOS 5, so sorry,
the reason has always been available
on earlier versions of iOS.
In iOS 5, we're giving you the
previous route description,
and it's going to be the same format
as the property that we just looked
at for getting the current route.
It's going to give you separate
inputs and separate outputs,
and we're enumerating what each of the
possibilities are for inputs and outputs.
And then we're also giving you
the current route description.
Okay, so we've been talking for a little
bit now about audio session.
We've looked at the five steps.
Setting up the session in delegate,
choosing a category,
and setting a mode if you're doing
voice chat or video recording
or some type of measurement.
And then we talked about making the
session active and managing your active
state for certain types of applications.
And then we talked about once
your application was up and
running and you're using audio,
that you want to handle interruptions
and handle route changes.
So the final topic today is audio codecs.
Audio codecs are separate
from audio session,
but they're a really critical technology
that many of you will be using,
and so it's important to talk about it.
So what is a codec?
Well, the term codec comes
from encoder and decoder.
It's all about taking linear PCM signals,
audio signals,
and compressing them into some
sort of compressed format and then
decompressing them back to linear PCM.
There are two broad categories of codecs,
lossy and lossless,
and we're going to go into each of those.
And it's, like I said,
a core technology in
digital audio these days.
So lossless audio codecs.
The beauty of a lossless audio codec
is that there's no loss of information.
If you take an audio signal,
you compress it,
and then later decompress it,
the signal that you get back is
going to be bit for bit identical.
The disadvantage is that the
compression factor is not all that high,
typically 1.5 to 2.
So that's why some really smart people
came up with lossy audio codecs.
Many of the popular modern lossy codecs,
like MP3 and the AAC variants,
rely on a perceptual model,
a psychoacoustic model of human hearing.
The quality of lossy codecs are
going to vary with the bit rate,
and the payoff is that you get a
much higher compression factor,
typically 6 to 24.
On iOS 5, we have many of the
popular codecs available,
MP3, the Apple Lossless Audio Codec,
otherwise known as ALAC,
and then various flavors of AAC.
On the decoder side,
all of these are available,
and on the encoder side,
with the exception of MP3 and AAC,
the high-efficiency variants
encoders are available.
And on iOS 5,
we're also adding AAC-enhanced
low-delay plus SBR.
Let's just take a quick
look at the AAC variants.
AAC stands for Advanced Audio Codec.
It's not Apple Codec.
It's Advanced Audio Codec.
So the first form of
AAC is AAC Low Complexity.
And this is the core
technology for the AAC family,
what all the other
variants are built upon.
This provides very high quality audio.
So the audio that users download
from the iTunes Music Store,
that's all using AAC.
And it's for general use.
The high efficiency variants are
designed for streaming audio,
and they provide lower bit rates.
And then the low delay variants
of AAC are for voice over
IP and conference applications,
and their key feature is the low delay.
Okay, how do I use a codec?
At the bottom layer of the software
stack are audio converters.
Moving up a layer in the audio toolbox,
we have audio cues and the
extended audio file API.
And then moving up a layer
further into AV foundation,
we have AV audio player
and AV audio recorder.
So these are some of the
ways that you can use Codex.
Each successive higher layer in the
software stack is going to wrapper
some common functionality and make
it easier to use audio converters,
which are at the base.
Thank you.
Okay, so thanks for putting up with
me for the last 50 minutes.
We've talked about a lot of things.
We've talked about the managed
audio experience on iOS,
and we talked about what that means.
We talked pretty extensively
about audio session,
and we talked about the
new things in iOS 5,
like modes.
We talked about using background
audio and what it means for your
application to be mixable or non-mixable.
We looked at some of the new
properties that are available
in iOS related to routing,
and we talked about a new
behavior-related routing.
And then we talked about how you can
use the voice processing audio unit
if you're using the voice chat mode,
and why that's so important,
and how it can take your
application to the next level.
And then finally, we talked about codecs,
since they are a really
important digital technology.
For more information,
I want to direct you to Eric Verschen,
who's our... Eric Verschen,
who's our Media Technologies Evangelist.
Check out the programming guides that
are available on developer.apple.com.
I recommend you just go and search
for audio and take a look at all the
great documentation that's there.
And then finally,
the Apple Developer Forums
are always available.
Thank you, and have a great week.